"."
"1" "Kampala, Uganda – The World Health Organization’s Regional Office for Africa (WHO AFRO) has conducted a five-day capacity-building workshop in Uganda from 14-18 October 2024 to empower 40 representatives from government, civil society, and academia from Ghana, Kenya, Mauritius, Tanzania, and Uganda. The goal was to enhance efforts in implementing policies that promote healthier diets and physical activity to prevent obesity and diet-related noncommunicable diseases (NCDs)."
"2" "The rising rates of obesity and NCDs in the African Region remains a critical public health concern. Efforts to scale up reduction of the risk factors of increased consumption of nutrient poor and energy dense foods and inadequate physical activity have fueled the rise in obesity and related NCDs in the African Region. For instance, between 2000 and 2016, the proportion of overweight and obese adults increased from 28.4% to 41.7%. Furthermore, among children aged 5–19, obesity increased significantly across the continent and by 2016, 28% of obese children worldwide lived in Africa. In 2019, NCDs accounted for 37% of deaths in the region, compared to 24% in 2000."
"3" "“To combat this growing health crisis, WHO AFRO is committed to supporting Member States in implementing evidence-based policies that promote healthier lifestyles,” said Dr. Charles Njuguna, the Acting WHO Country Representative to Uganda."
"4" "“The ongoing training, which is part of the Global Regulatory & Fiscal Capacity Building Programme (Global RECAP) aims to strengthen regulatory frameworks, promote evidence-based policies, and support research on NCD prevention.” Dr Laetitia Ouedraogo Nikiema, Regional Advisor, Nutrition and Food Safety."
"5" "The training is conducted by World Health organization in collaboration with the International Development Law Organization (IDLO) and the International Development Research Center (IDRC), with funding from the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation and the European Union. "
"6" "Participants are engaged in expert-led discussions, country presentations, and group works, addressing key policy areas such as restricting food marketing to children, taxing sugary beverages, front-of-pack nutrition labelling, reformulating products to reduce salt, sugar, and fat, and promoting physical activity in schools and communities."
"7" "“This event has been highly informative and beneficial. It will greatly assist us in the conceptualization and implementation of the meeting's recommendations on improvement of the Nutrition Environment to inform healthy food choices for the people in Uganda,\" said Mr. Ivan Arinda Kato, Medical Officer NCDs, Ministry of Health."
"8" "The workshop has enhanced the capacity of participating countries to develop and implement robust regulatory and fiscal policies, equipping them with concrete action plans to strengthen their fight against NCDs. It also fostered regional collaboration and experience-sharing, promoting a unified, multisectoral approach to tackling NCDs in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goals."
